# Introduction

Companies and organizations (collectively “Organizations”) are widely using and
reusing open source and other software packages. Accurate identification of
software is key for many supply chain processes. Vulnerability remediation
starts with knowing the details of which version of software is in use on a
system. Compliance with the associated licenses requires a set of analysis
activities and due diligence that each Organization performs independently,
which may include a manual and/or automated scan of software and identification
of associated licenses followed by manual verification.

Software development teams across the globe use the same open source packages,
but little infrastructure exists to facilitate collaboration on the analysis or
share the results of these analysis activities. As a result, many groups are
performing the same work leading to duplicated efforts and redundant
information. With this document, the SPDX workgroup, a combined effort of the
Linux Foundation SPDX group and the OMG/CISQ Tool-to-Tool effort, has created a
data exchange format so that information about software packages and related
content may be collected and shared in a common format with the goal of saving
time and improving data accuracy.

The merged activities of the two groups slid together the beginning weeks of
2021 with activities generally moving forward but occasionally stalling while
the larger group worked through issues that one or the other hadn’t discussed
or had a different opinion about. Eventually, after releasing SPDX 2.3 in
August of 2022 with updates that brought some of the concepts and capabilities
slated for SPDX 3.0 to the community in preparation of the shift that SPDX 3.0
represents, the first release candidate of SPDX 3.0 was released in May of
2023. Within the SPDX community, which is both a standards creation
organization as well as a community of open source developers, a release
candidate offers an opportunity for implementors of SPDX, both new and old, to
review the work and determine whether there were parts that were unclear or
that would be extremely burdensome to implement.

Based on the comments and change requests from the initial candidate release
several areas of the model were revised and reworked, resulting in a release
candidate 2 of SPDX 3.0 in February of 2024. That release candidate gave tool
creators and those who maintain the support libraries for working with SPDX
time to start revising their projects in advance of the, the final version of
the SPDX 3.0 specification. For those not following the inner workings,
debates, and discussion of the combined 3T-SBOM and SPDX 3.0 working group for
the last 3 years there has been a dramatic change in the SPDX model as it goes
from SPDX 2.3 to SPDX 3.0, shifting the SPDX name from Software Package Data
Exchange to System Package Data Exchange and expanding the scope of items it
can now convey in a bill of materials from software, security, and licensing to
many additional aspects like data sets, AI models, and build information.

Since the release of 3.0.0, we have gathered feedback on the level of
documentation and minor errors in the model which have been addressed in the
3.0.1 release.
